Add helping section (#196)
R2Northstar/NorthstarWiki: docs/helping.md

# Helping

> This section is meant mostly for those that will be actively helping others in the Northstar Discord server or otherwise. If you've somehow stumbled upon this page trying to fix an issue for yourself, you should try checking the [troubleshooting page](installing-northstar/troubleshooting.md). If you're a helper, it also isn't a bad idea to look at this page a few times and try to have a rough idea of the things that are on it.

Reviewer: I'd say have line breaks between sentences in the markdown source. Those don't get rendered as line breaks on GitBook (cause that's markdown convention) but make it easier to suggest changes to a single sentence cause it results in a smaller diff (sentence vs paragraph).

In other words

```suggestion
This section is meant mostly for those that will be actively helping others in the Northstar Discord server or otherwise.
If you've somehow stumbled upon this page trying to fix an issue for yourself, you should try checking the [troubleshooting page](installing-northstar/troubleshooting.md).
If you're a helper, it also isn't a bad idea to look at this page a few times and try to have a rough idea of the things that are on it.
```

This isn't the only place, just the first I found ^^

# Helping

This section is meant mostly for those that will be actively helping others in the Northstar Discord server or otherwise.

> If you've somehow stumbled upon this page trying to fix an issue for yourself, you should try checking the [troubleshooting page](installing-northstar/troubleshooting.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've somehow stumbled upon this page trying to fix an issue for yourself, you should try checking the [troubleshooting page](installing-northstar/troubleshooting.md) instead.
```

If you're a helper, it also isn't a bad idea to look at this page a few times and try to have a rough idea of the things that are on it.

When helping a user, please try to move them to the `#help` channel to create a ticket as well as to keep public channels less cluttered. 
Cyn (cooldudepugs)'s Discord bot [Spectre](https://github.com/CooldudePUGS/Spectre) is meant to additionally try to direct users to tickets as well when it detects a user might be asking for help in a public channel. It also automatically replies to specific error messages, which you can see a list of [here](https://github.com/CooldudePUGS/Spectre/wiki/Replies).
If they really don't want to open a ticket or you don't want to deal with a ticket, ask them to move to `#northstar-chat`. 

> There, not only can they embed things, but it'll be slightly more focused on helping than general would be.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There, not only can they embed things, but it'll be slightly more focused on helping than other channels would be.
```

Arguably the most important things to know as a helper are the ability to read logs and deal with users that don't read the wiki (90% of tickets are solutions solvable by checking the wiki.

> There is a pretty high chance that even if the user says yes, they read the wiki, that they didn't or didn't find their issue on there)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a pretty high chance that even if the user claims they read the wiki they didn't actually do so or didn't find their issue on there)
```

Reading logs is a little tougher however, but once you get the basics down you can easily diagnose issues in a few seconds after opening a log. 

> You can use `/tag id:logs` to inform users how to properly send a log in a Discord channel. Generally, when reading a log there are a list of things you want to look for, which will be covered later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `/tag id:logs` to inform users how to properly send a log in a Discord channel.
Generally, when reading a log there are a list of things you want to look for, which will be covered later.
```

The first section will first go over extremely common issues and their tags, then the basics of using the ticket bot for commands inside tickets, and then some overview and specific examples for reading logs.

> Additionally, please don't be afraid to ask for help. The entirety of `#volunteers-chat` in the Discord server is specifically for those that help/sometimns help users and there's no shame it not knowing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, please don't be afraid to ask for help. The entirety of `#volunteers-chat` in the Discord server is specifically for those that help/sometimes help users and there's no shame it not knowing.
```

## Common issues and their tags

In the Northstar Discord server, a massively used device to help end users is the tickets bot. A lot of the common issues and questions that come up have tags for them on the Discord server. 
The tag command for the tickets bot is `/tag`, and you can either type `/tag id:{TAG ID HERE}` or let the bot autofill the tag for you after typing `/tag` and selecting the tag id from the list (make sure you select the ticket bot, and not Dyno!). 
Note, you can't reply to a user while using a slash command, so try to reply to the bot's message after sending the tag command while pinging the person it's directed at and informing them that they should follow the provided solution.

> Here, this guide will go over common issues and their tag id's, trying to have the more commonly used tags near the top.

Reviewer: This list will get outdated super fast when we add/remove tags. Is there no way to see list of tags and their function in ticket bot (dashboard). Cause then we should just link to that IMO.

You can also use `/closerequest` without giving a `close_delay` or a `reason`, however you should always try to give a reason for closing a ticket, and if you don't give a `close_delay` there's a high chance that the ticket doesn't get closed (quite a few end users don't accept or see the close request)

You can view information on the closed tickets, such as open and close date, who opened the ticket, who closed the ticket, and the reason for closing the ticket in the `#transcripts` channel. The bot also provides an online log of the entire ticket connected to the embed when a ticket is closed.

### General log reading
1. Looking for the error
   
   When reading a log, the errors are generally easy to find. You can usually scroll to the bottom of the log, then look for an error message for script compilation errors, or a crash dump.
   Note that the crash dump isn't usually all to helpful in itself, however for both crash dumps and script compilations, generally you can look at the areas surrounding it to see what mod is loaded before the error and start from there. Read the specifics for more in depth explanations of each.
   

> 3. Time and date

Reviewer: Where's `2.`? ^^"

# Helping

This section is meant mostly for those that will be actively helping others in the Northstar Discord server or otherwise.
If you've somehow stumbled upon this page trying to fix an issue for yourself, you should try checking the [troubleshooting page](installing-northstar/troubleshooting.md) instead. 
If you're a helper, it also isn't a bad idea to look at this page a few times and try to have a rough idea of the things that are on it.

> When helping a user, please try to move them to the `#help` channel to create a ticket as well as to keep public channels less cluttered. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When helping a user, please try to move them to the `#help` channel to create a ticket in order to keep public channels less cluttered. 
```

If they really don't want to open a ticket or you don't want to deal with a ticket, ask them to move to `#northstar-chat`. 
There, not only can they embed things, but it'll be slightly more focused on helping than other channels would be.

Arguably the most important things to know as a helper are the ability to read logs and deal with users that don't read the wiki (90% of tickets are solutions solvable by checking the wiki.

> There is a pretty high chance that even if the user claims they read the wiki they didn't actually do so or didn't find their issue on there)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a pretty high chance that even if the user claims they read the wiki they didn't actually do so or didn't manage to find their issue on there)
```

Reading logs is a little tougher however, but once you get the basics down you can easily diagnose issues in a few seconds after opening a log. 
You can use `/tag id:logs` to inform users how to properly send a log in a Discord channel. 
Generally, when reading a log there are a list of things you want to look for, which will be covered later.

> The first section will first go over extremely common issues and their tags, then the basics of using the ticket bot for commands inside tickets, and then some overview and specific examples for reading logs.

Reviewer: The example for reading logs is gone, no?

Additionally, please don't be afraid to ask for help. The entirety of `#volunteers-chat` in the Discord server is specifically for those that help/sometimes help users and there's no shame it not knowing.

## Common issues and their tags

> In the Northstar Discord server, a massively used device to help end users is the tickets bot. A lot of the common issues and questions that come up have tags for them on the Discord server. 

Reviewer: Might wanna take a second to explain what a `tag` is in the context of ticket bot.

The tag command for the tickets bot is `/tag`, and you can either type `/tag id:{TAG ID HERE}` or let the bot autofill the tag for you after typing `/tag` and selecting the tag id from the list (make sure you select the ticket bot, and not Dyno!). 
Note, you can't reply to a user while using a slash command, so try to reply to the bot's message after sending the tag command while pinging the person it's directed at and informing them that they should follow the provided solution.

> You can find a list of these tags on the [tag dashboard for the help bot](https://panel.ticketsbot.net/manage/920776187884732556/tags), so long as you sign in using your Discord account and have access to it with the roles that you have.

Reviewer: This link causes linkcheck to fail due to missing access. The easiest solution is to add it to its ignore list under `.github/.markdownlinkcheck.json`

## Ticket channel commands

This entire section only applies to users with `ticket-staff`+ roles who can see the ticket channels in the Discord server

The tickets have a fairly straightforward way of operating. When a user clicks on a button to open a ticket 

> (a staff ticket is only visible by helper+ roles, while a public ticket is visible by ticket-staff+ roles) they're greeted with the following screen:\

Reviewer: Uh the stuff in parenthesis seems like it's kinda coming out of nowhere ^^"

If they continue to not respond for 2-3 days, we tend to set a close request with `close_delay` set to `48` and the `reason` set to  "inactive ticket, ac 48hr"

You can also use `/closerequest` without giving a `close_delay` or a `reason`, however you should always try to give a reason for closing a ticket, and if you don't give a `close_delay` there's a high chance that the ticket doesn't get closed (quite a few end users don't accept or see the close request)

You can view information on the closed tickets, such as open and close date, who opened the ticket, who closed the ticket, and the reason for closing the ticket in the `#transcripts` channel. The bot also provides an online log of the entire ticket connected to the embed when a ticket is closed.

## Miscellaneous 

The Northstar Discord server also has a couple custom bots in it. These are:

birb and H0L0's bot [Northstar Servers](https://github.com/hummusbird/northstar-bot), which allows you to run commands like `.status` and see how many people are online on Northstar currently, and things such as `.search region aus`, which would search servers with the region Australia. You can check the repo for more info.

> Cyn's bot [Spectre](https://github.com/itscynxx/Spectre) automatically replies to specific error messages, which you can see a list of [here](https://github.com/itscynxx/Spectre/wiki/Replies)

Reviewer: Could make subsections for those or a list so that it's formatted in a more readable way \^\^

Reviewer: Done with 54c9ebda40176bfe23836bb45890b881b4f5f61a

If they ask about port forwarding, ask them to Google how to do it for their specific router as it tends to differ, sometimes heavily, from router to router)

"How to play co-op?": `/tag id:coop` (This gives a detailed mini explanation on how to install the co-op mod, and host a server to run it. 
Try to inform the user that it's still heavily WIP and has some issues. 
Listen servers don't allow for joining mid game; to do this, they must host a dedicated server with the "coop patches" mod provided with this tag)

"How to play Frontier Defnse?": `/tag id:fd` (This is called `fd` as it's the abbreviation for **F**rontier **D**efense. 
This tag goes over how to install and set up Frontier Defense, like co-op's tag. Try to inform the user that it's still heavily WIP)

"How do I use X mod manager?": The 3 "main" mod managers all have guides. `/tag id:{INSTALLER NAME HERE}-guide` links to the specified installer's guide

"How do I (manually) install Northstar?": `/tag id:manual-install` (This goes over installing, extracting, and replacing the files as well as giving a video guide. 

> Spectre should catch _most_ of these questions)

Reviewer: Eh maybe avoid Spectre mention until it's added. Also when adding, might make sense to mention somewhere what _Spectre_ is ^^

Author: this may or may not have been left over from an original commit where i was assuming id be working on this for weeks and Spectre would've been added already, there was a section explaining Spectre but it's since removed

Author: The original explanation:
> As of {ENTER DATE HERE WHEN SPECTRE GETS ADDED}, Cyn(cooldudepugs)'s Discord bot [Spectre](https://github.com/CooldudePUGS/Spectre) was added to Northstar's Discord. This bot tries to automatically redirect users to opening a ticket in the `#help` channel, and automatically replies to some messages regarding issues with the game, however it cannot and will not catch all cases, even of basic help.

Would probably edit this to say 
> As of {ENTER DATE HERE WHEN SPECTRE GETS ADDED}, Cyn(cooldudepugs)'s Discord bot [Spectre](https://github.com/CooldudePUGS/Spectre) was added to the Northstar Discord. This bot tries to automatically redirect users to opening a ticket in the `#help` channel, and automatically replies to some messages regarding issues or questions with Northstar. It, however, cannot and will not catch all cases, even of basic help.

If they really don't want to open a ticket or you don't want to deal with a ticket, ask them to move to `#northstar-chat`. 
There, not only can they embed things, but it'll be slightly more focused on helping than other channels would be.

Arguably the most important things to know as a helper are the ability to read logs and deal with users that don't read the wiki (90% of tickets are solutions solvable by checking the wiki.
There is a pretty high chance that even if the user claims they read the wiki they didn't actually do so or didn't manage to find their issue on there)

The first section will go over extremely common issues and their tags, then the basics of using the ticket bot for commands inside tickets

Additionally, please don't be afraid to ask for help. The entirety of `#volunteers-chat` in the Discord server is specifically for those that help/sometimes help users and there's no shame it not knowing.

## Common issues and their tags

In the Northstar Discord server, a massively used device to help end users is the tickets bot. A lot of the common issues and questions that come up have tags for them on the Discord server. 

> Tags are bits of information that you can easily access by using a slash command. We use them mostly for common questions (such as the tag explaining how you can spawn the double barrel, and that you can't spawn it in most servers) and for linking directly to specific pages on the wiki (such as the section about [Intel gen 10+ cpus](https://r2northstar.gitbook.io/r2northstar-wiki/installing-northstar/troubleshooting#intel)).

Reviewer: Newline, missing word, grammar
```suggestion
Tags are bits of information that you can easily access by using a slash command.
We use them mostly for common questions (such as the tag explaining how you can spawn the double barrel shotgun and that you can't spawn it in most servers), and for linking directly to specific pages on the wiki (such as the section about [Intel gen 10+ cpus](https://r2northstar.gitbook.io/r2northstar-wiki/installing-northstar/troubleshooting#intel)).
```

The tag command for the tickets bot is `/tag`, and you can either type `/tag id:{TAG ID HERE}` or let the bot autofill the tag for you after typing `/tag` and selecting the tag id from the list (make sure you select the ticket bot, and not Dyno!). 
Note, you can't reply to a user while using a slash command, so try to reply to the bot's message after sending the tag command while pinging the person it's directed at and informing them that they should follow the provided solution.

You can find a list of these tags on the [tag dashboard for the help bot](https://panel.ticketsbot.net/manage/920776187884732556/tags), so long as you sign in using your Discord account and have access to it with the roles that you have.

## Ticket channel commands

This entire section only applies to users with `ticket-staff`+ roles who can see the ticket channels in the Discord server

> The tickets have a fairly straightforward way of operating. When a user clicks on a button to open a ticket they're greeted with the following screen:\

Reviewer: newline in source
```suggestion
The tickets have a fairly straightforward way of operating.
When a user clicks on a button to open a ticket they're greeted with the following screen:\
```

You may have noticed that `/closerequest` has been skipped. That's because there's sort of a "etiquette" surrounding it.

Generally, you _should_ use `/closerequest` for closing a ticket. There's much less chance the end user gets upset, and it can be denied last minute if another issue comes up.\
![What using the `/closerequest` command looks like](images/closerequest.png)

From here, the user can accept the close request, which in turn closes the ticket, or deny the close request, while results in an edited embed telling you they denied it.

To _use_ the `/closerequest` command, there are a few "ways" to use it.\
Note that `close_delay` is a number, meaning the time in hours before the ticket autocloses.\
`reason` is a box to input the reason for a close request.\
Using "ac" as described later lets other people know how long until the ticket will close ("ac" meaning **A**uto **C**lose). This helps yourself and others when looking at tickets because the tickets bot doesn't show when a ticket is set to auto close.

> If the ticket seems resolved/the user has said they have no issues, use `/closerequest` with `close_delay` set to `8` and the `reason` set to "resolved, ac 8hr"

Reviewer: I'd say more like 12 hours to give them a bit more time to come back if need be.

```suggestion
If the ticket seems resolved/the user has said they have no issues, use `/closerequest` with `close_delay` set to `12` and the `reason` set to "resolved, ac 12hr"
```

For tickets where the end user that opened the ticket _never_ responded, we usually wait a couple days, ping them a few times, and if they continue to be inactve, set a close request with `close_delay` set to 24 and the `reason` set to "no response, ac 24hr"
For inactive tickets (when it's the _user_ not responding, not us!) we usually give them a few days and then start pinging them once a day. 
If they continue to not respond for 2-3 days, we tend to set a close request with `close_delay` set to `48` and the `reason` set to  "inactive ticket, ac 48hr"

You can also use `/closerequest` without giving a `close_delay` or a `reason`, however you should always try to give a reason for closing a ticket, and if you don't give a `close_delay` there's a high chance that the ticket doesn't get closed (quite a few end users don't accept or see the close request)

> You can view information on the closed tickets, such as open and close date, who opened the ticket, who closed the ticket, and the reason for closing the ticket in the `#transcripts` channel. The bot also provides an online log of the entire ticket connected to the embed when a ticket is closed.

Reviewer: newline in source

```suggestion
You can view information on the closed tickets, such as open and close date, who opened the ticket, who closed the ticket, and the reason for closing the ticket in the `#transcripts` channel.
The bot also provides an online log of the entire ticket connected to the embed when a ticket is closed.
```

For inactive tickets (when it's the _user_ not responding, not us!) we usually give them a few days and then start pinging them once a day. 
If they continue to not respond for 2-3 days, we tend to set a close request with `close_delay` set to `48` and the `reason` set to  "inactive ticket, ac 48hr"

You can also use `/closerequest` without giving a `close_delay` or a `reason`, however you should always try to give a reason for closing a ticket, and if you don't give a `close_delay` there's a high chance that the ticket doesn't get closed (quite a few end users don't accept or see the close request)

You can view information on the closed tickets, such as open and close date, who opened the ticket, who closed the ticket, and the reason for closing the ticket in the `#transcripts` channel.
The bot also provides an online log of the entire ticket connected to the embed when a ticket is closed.

## Miscellaneous 

### Northstar Servers

> A Discord bot created by birb and rewritten by H0L0 which allows you to run commands like `.status` and see how many people are currently online on Northstar, as  well as commands such as `.search region aus` (which would search for Northstar servers with the region set to Australia). You can check the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/hummusbird/northstar-bot) for more info on Northstar Servers.

Reviewer: Newline in source

```suggestion
A Discord bot created by birb and rewritten by H0L0 which allows you to run commands like `.status` and see how many people are currently online on Northstar, as  well as commands such as `.search region aus` (which would search for Northstar servers with the region set to Australia).
You can check the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/hummusbird/northstar-bot) for more info on Northstar Servers.
```

### Spectre

> A Discord bot created by Cyn with help from multiple people designed to automatically reply to specific errors messages, screenshots of error messages, and some more quality of life features for helpers. You can check the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/itscynxx/Spectre) for more info on Spectre.

Reviewer: Newline in source

```suggestion
A Discord bot created by Cyn with help from multiple people designed to automatically reply to specific errors messages, screenshots of error messages, and some more quality of life features for helpers.
You can check the [GitHub repo](https://github.com/itscynxx/Spectre) for more info on Spectre.
```

> Using "ac" as described later lets other people know how long until the ticket will close. "ac" meaning **A**uto **C**lose.

Reviewer: Maybe mention that it's cause ticket bot doesn't mention the time a ticket was set to autoclose at. ^^

If the ticket very highly seems resolved/the user has said they have no issues, use `/closerequest` with `close_delay` set to `1` and the `reason` set to "resolved, ac 1hr"\

> If the ticket seems like it _might_ be resolved, try a `close_delay` of `3-8` (use your judgement) with the `reason` "seemingly resolved, ac {HOUR-COUNT}hr". 

Reviewer: I'd keep 8 hour auto close the minimum for resolved ^^

Author: do you mean _all_ resolved or seemingly resolved?

Reviewer: I'd say all resolved. The ticket author can still manually resolve earlier if they wanna ^^
